# CMPG-323-Project-2-33574359
Overview

EcoPower Logistics sells a wide range of parts and components essential for installing, functioning, and optimising solar energy systems. These parts are designed to harness and convert solar energy into usable electricity. The products that the company offers are, for example: solar panels, mounting systems to securely install solar panels on rooftops, inverters that convert DC electricity produced by solar panels into alternating current (AC) electricity, batteries, and monitoring and control systems to allow users to track the performance, energy production, and overall health of their solar energy systems.
EcoPower Logistics specialises in managing and optimising the intricate processes involved in moving goods, encompassing warehousing and transportation, from the initial source to the final destination based on individual customer requirements. EcoPower Logistics comprehensive logistics solutions tackle the complexities of acquiring, storing, and transporting resources and goods globally, requiring meticulous coordination. Every facet of logistics, from transportation to packaging, inventory management, and warehousing, must operate seamlessly and in perfect harmony. Through our logistics management system, EcoPower Logistics receive and process orders, while the warehouse serves as a secure storage facility.
Prior to transportation, all orders placed by customers undergo meticulous packaging to ensure the utmost security and proper labelling of goods. Each order a customer places contains several solar products to install a solar facility at a customer location. EcoPower Logistics prioritises the safe delivery of solar products by inspections of vehicles to detect any pre-existing faults or damages that could potentially impact the condition of the goods, particularly on longer routes. EcoPower Logistics assigns tracking IDs to every order to enhance efficiency at every stage, facilitating seamless scanning and processing and providing users with access to real-time order status updates.
Given the ever-growing reliance on logistics to sustain businesses and drive economic activities, EcoPower Logistics recognise the imperative of uninterrupted operations and increasingly leverages technology to adapt and enhance services. Few industries hold as much potential for API integration as the logistics sector. From Amazon to local, family-owned enterprises, all players within the logistics ecosystem, including shippers, couriers, and delivery services, stand to reap significant advantages by utilising a logistics API. APIs offer many benefits, from fostering business agility to improving the overall customer experience. By seamlessly integrating API solutions into their operations, logistics companies can unlock new opportunities for growth, efficiency, and service excellence.
Representational State Transfer (REST) is a model and architectural style for web services over HTTP. EcoPower Logistics services can be managed using the cloud when this model is used for API design. Therefore, the EcoPower Logistics Management System should be implemented as a set of RESTful APIs.   
RESTful APIs and services are used as a good practice in the industry to transport data between systems, environments, interfaces and applications. One of the most common use cases is connecting a RESTful API to a data source to manage interaction with the data source. This approach lends many advantages to a solution mostly addressing longevity. RESTful APIs commonly consist of CRUD methods that allow for retrieval of data and manipulation of data (create, read, update and delete).   
As part of the EcoPower Logistics project, you will create a CRUD RESTful API that will connect to a database storing basic logistics data. The API should contain at least one get, post, patch and delete method per resource – aligning to the project's requirements. The RESTful API architecture has several endpoints called over HTTP, invoking application code to update a database.

33574359-cmpg323-server.database.windows.net
